README.md, before:

_For detailed look at the goals, design, and implementation of this project, check out [this blog post](http://www.philipotoole.com/designing-a-search-system-for-log-data-part-i/)._
# Ekanite [![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/ekanite/ekanite/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/ekanite/ekanite/tree/master) [![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/ekanite/ekanite?status.png)](https://godoc.org/github.com/ekanite/ekanite)
*Ekanite* is a syslog server with built-in search. Its goal is to do one thing, and do it well -- make log messages received over the network searchable. What it lacks in feature, it makes up for in focus. Built in [Go](http://www.golang.org), it has no external dependencies, which makes deployment easy.

Features include:

- Supports reception of log messages over UDP, TCP, and TCP with TLS.
- Full text search of all received log messages.
- Full parsing of [RFC5424](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5424) headers.
- Log messages are indexed by parsed timestamp, if one is available. This means search results are presented in the order the messages occurred, not in the order they were received, ensuring sensible display even with delayed senders.
- Automatic data-retention management. Ekanite deletes indexed log data older than a configurable time period.
- Not a [JVM](https://java.com/en/download/) in sight.

Search is implemented using the [bleve](http://www.blevesearch.com/) search library. For some performance analysis of bleve, and of the sharding techniques used by Ekanite, check out [this post](http://www.philipotoole.com/increasing-bleve-performance-sharding/).

Building
------------
Tested on 64-bit Kubuntu 14.04.

    mkdir ~/ekanite # Or a directory of your choice.
    cd ~/ekanite
    export GOPATH=$PWD
    go get github.com/ekanite/ekanite
    go install github.com/ekanite/...

Running
------------
The daemon will be located in the ```$GOPATH/bin``` directory. Execute

```
$ ekanited -h
ekanited [options]
  -batchsize int
        Indexing batch size (default 300)
  -batchtime int
        Indexing batch timeout, in milliseconds (default 1000)
  -cpuprof string
        Where to write CPU profiling data. Not written if not set
  -datadir string
        Set data directory (default "/var/opt/ekanite")
  -diag string
        expvar and pprof bind address in the form host:port. If not set, not started (default "localhost:9951")
  -maxpending int
        Maximum pending index events (default 1000)
  -memprof string
        Where to write memory profiling data. Not written if not set
  -noreport
        Do not report anonymous data on launch
  -numshards int
        Set number of shards per index (default 4)
  -query string
        TCP Bind address for query server in the form host:port. To disable set to empty string (default "localhost:9950")
  -queryhttp string
        TCP Bind address for http query server in the form host:port. To disable set to empty string (default "localhost:8080")
  -retention string
        Data retention period. Minimum is 24 hours (default "168h")
  -tcp string
        Syslog server TCP bind address in the form host:port. To disable set to empty string (default "localhost:5514")
  -tlskey string
        path to CA key file for TLS-enabled TCP server. If not set, TLS not activated
  -tlspem string
        path to CA PEM file for TLS-enabled TCP server. If not set, TLS not activated
  -udp string
        Syslog server UDP bind address in the form host:port. If not set, not started
```

for command-line options.

Sending logs to Ekanite
------------
For now, for Ekanite to accept logs, your syslog client must be configured such that the log lines are [RFC5424](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5424) compliant, and in the following format:

    <PRI>VERSION TIMESTAMP HOSTNAME APP-NAME PROC-ID MSGID MSG"

Consult the RFC to learn what each of these fields is. The TIMESTAMP field must be in [RFC3339](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt) format.  Both [rsyslog](http://www.rsyslog.com/) and [syslog-ng](http://www.balabit.com/network-security/syslog-ng) support templating, which make it **very easy** for those programs to format logs correctly and transmit the logs to Ekanite. Templates and installation instructions for both systems are below.

**rsyslog**

```
# Send messages to Ekanite over TCP using the template. Assumes Ekanite is listening on 127.0.0.1:5514
$template Ekanite,"<%pri%>%protocol-version% %timestamp:::date-rfc3339% %HOSTNAME% %app-name% %procid% - %msg%"
*.*             @@127.0.0.1:5514;EkaniteFormat
```
Add this template to `/etc/rsyslog.d/23-ekanite.conf` and then restart rsyslog using the command `sudo service rsyslog restart`.

**syslog-ng**

```
source s_ekanite {
	system();	# Check which OS & collect system logs
	internal();	# Collect syslog-ng logs
};
template Ekanite { template("<${PRI}>1 ${ISODATE} ${HOST} ${PROGRAM} ${PID} - $MSG"); template_escape(no) };
destination d_ekanite {
	tcp("127.0.0.1" port(5514) template(Ekanite));
};

log {
	source(s_ekanite);
	destination(d_ekanite);
};
```
Add this template to `/etc/syslog-ng/syslog-ng.conf` and then restart syslog-ng using the command `/etc/init.d/syslog-ng restart`.

With these changes in place rsyslog or syslog-ng will continue to send logs to any existing destination, and also forward the logs to Ekanite.

Searching the logs
------------
Search support is pretty simple at the moment. You have two options -- a simple telnet-like interface, and a browser-based interface.

### Telnet interface

Telnet to the query server (see the command line options) and enter a search term. The query language supported is the simple language supported by [bleve](http://godoc.org/github.com/blevesearch/bleve#NewQueryStringQuery), but a more sophisiticated query syntax, including searching for specific field values, may be supported soon.

For example, below is an example search session, showing accesses to the login URL of a Wordpress site. The telnet clients connects to the query server and enters the string `login`

```
$ telnet 127.0.0.1 9950
Trying 127.0.0.1...
Connected to 127.0.0.1.
Escape character is '^]'.
login
<134>0 2015-05-05T23:50:17.025568+00:00 fisher apache-access - - 65.98.59.154 - - [05/May/2015:23:50:12 +0000] "GET /wp-login.php HTTP/1.0" 200 206 "-" "-"
<134>0 2015-05-06T01:24:41.232890+00:00 fisher apache-access - - 104.140.83.221 - - [06/May/2015:01:24:40 +0000] "GET /wp-login.php?action=register HTTP/1.0" 200 206 "http://www.philipotoole.com/" "Opera/9.80 (Windows NT 6.2; Win64; x64) Presto/2.12.388 Version/12.17"
<134>0 2015-05-06T01:24:41.232895+00:00 fisher apache-access - - 104.140.83.221 - - [06/May/2015:01:24:40 +0000] "GET /wp-login.php?action=register HTTP/1.1" 200 243 "http://www.philipotoole.com/wp-login.php?action=register" "Opera/9.80 (Windows NT 6.2; Win64; x64) Presto/2.12.388 Version/12.17"
<134>0 2015-05-06T02:47:54.612953+00:00 fisher apache-access - - 184.68.20.22 - - [06/May/2015:02:47:51 +0000] "GET /wp-login.php HTTP/1.1" 200 243 "-" "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1) AppleWebKit/537.1 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/24.0.1309.0 Safari/537.17"
<134>0 2015-05-06T04:20:49.008609+00:00 fisher apache-access - - 193.104.41.186 - - [06/May/2015:04:20:46 +0000] "POST /wp-login.php HTTP/1.1" 200 206 "-" "Opera 10.00"
```

Perhaps you only want to search for `POST` accesses to that URL:

```
login -GET
<134>0 2015-05-06T04:20:49.008609+00:00 fisher apache-access - - 193.104.41.186 - - [06/May/2015:04:20:46 +0000] "POST /wp-login.php HTTP/1.1" 200 206 "-" "Opera 10.00"
```

A more sophisticated client program is planned.

### Browser interface

The browser-based interface also accepts bleve-style queries, identical to those described in the _Telnet_ section. By default the browser interface is available at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080). An example session is shown below.

![Data Diagram](img/eq.png)

## Diagnostics
Basic statistics and diagnostics are available. Visit `http://localhost:9951/debug/vars` to retrieve this information. The host and port can be changed via the `-diag` command-line option.

## Reporting
Ekanite reports a small amount anonymous data to [Loggly](http://www.loggly.com), each time it is launched. This data is just the host operating system and system architecture and is only used to track the number of Ekanite deployments. Reporting can be disabled by passing `-noreport=true` to Ekanite at launch time.

## Project Status
The project is actively developed and is early stage software -- contributions in the form of bug reports and pull requests are welcome. Much work remains around performance and scaling.

Commit message:

Add a link to the issues

README.md, after:

_For detailed look at the goals, design, and implementation of this project, check out [this blog post](http://www.philipotoole.com/designing-a-search-system-for-log-data-part-i/)._
# Ekanite [![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/ekanite/ekanite/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/ekanite/ekanite/tree/master) [![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/ekanite/ekanite?status.png)](https://godoc.org/github.com/ekanite/ekanite)
*Ekanite* is a syslog server with built-in search. Its goal is to do one thing, and do it well -- make log messages received over the network searchable. What it lacks in feature, it makes up for in focus. Built in [Go](http://www.golang.org), it has no external dependencies, which makes deployment easy.

Features include:

- Supports reception of log messages over UDP, TCP, and TCP with TLS.
- Full text search of all received log messages.
- Full parsing of [RFC5424](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5424) headers.
- Log messages are indexed by parsed timestamp, if one is available. This means search results are presented in the order the messages occurred, not in the order they were received, ensuring sensible display even with delayed senders.
- Automatic data-retention management. Ekanite deletes indexed log data older than a configurable time period.
- Not a [JVM](https://java.com/en/download/) in sight.

Search is implemented using the [bleve](http://www.blevesearch.com/) search library. For some performance analysis of bleve, and of the sharding techniques used by Ekanite, check out [this post](http://www.philipotoole.com/increasing-bleve-performance-sharding/).

Building
------------
Tested on 64-bit Kubuntu 14.04.

    mkdir ~/ekanite # Or a directory of your choice.
    cd ~/ekanite
    export GOPATH=$PWD
    go get github.com/ekanite/ekanite
    go install github.com/ekanite/...

Running
------------
The daemon will be located in the ```$GOPATH/bin``` directory. Execute

```
$ ekanited -h
ekanited [options]
  -batchsize int
        Indexing batch size (default 300)
  -batchtime int
        Indexing batch timeout, in milliseconds (default 1000)
  -cpuprof string
        Where to write CPU profiling data. Not written if not set
  -datadir string
        Set data directory (default "/var/opt/ekanite")
  -diag string
        expvar and pprof bind address in the form host:port. If not set, not started (default "localhost:9951")
  -maxpending int
        Maximum pending index events (default 1000)
  -memprof string
        Where to write memory profiling data. Not written if not set
  -noreport
        Do not report anonymous data on launch
  -numshards int
        Set number of shards per index (default 4)
  -query string
        TCP Bind address for query server in the form host:port. To disable set to empty string (default "localhost:9950")
  -queryhttp string
        TCP Bind address for http query server in the form host:port. To disable set to empty string (default "localhost:8080")
  -retention string
        Data retention period. Minimum is 24 hours (default "168h")
  -tcp string
        Syslog server TCP bind address in the form host:port. To disable set to empty string (default "localhost:5514")
  -tlskey string
        path to CA key file for TLS-enabled TCP server. If not set, TLS not activated
  -tlspem string
        path to CA PEM file for TLS-enabled TCP server. If not set, TLS not activated
  -udp string
        Syslog server UDP bind address in the form host:port. If not set, not started
```

for command-line options.

Sending logs to Ekanite
------------
For now, for Ekanite to accept logs, your syslog client must be configured such that the log lines are [RFC5424](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5424) compliant, and in the following format:

    <PRI>VERSION TIMESTAMP HOSTNAME APP-NAME PROC-ID MSGID MSG"

Consult the RFC to learn what each of these fields is. The TIMESTAMP field must be in [RFC3339](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt) format.  Both [rsyslog](http://www.rsyslog.com/) and [syslog-ng](http://www.balabit.com/network-security/syslog-ng) support templating, which make it **very easy** for those programs to format logs correctly and transmit the logs to Ekanite. Templates and installation instructions for both systems are below.

**rsyslog**

```
# Send messages to Ekanite over TCP using the template. Assumes Ekanite is listening on 127.0.0.1:5514
$template Ekanite,"<%pri%>%protocol-version% %timestamp:::date-rfc3339% %HOSTNAME% %app-name% %procid% - %msg%"
*.*             @@127.0.0.1:5514;EkaniteFormat
```
Add this template to `/etc/rsyslog.d/23-ekanite.conf` and then restart rsyslog using the command `sudo service rsyslog restart`.

**syslog-ng**

```
source s_ekanite {
	system();	# Check which OS & collect system logs
	internal();	# Collect syslog-ng logs
};
template Ekanite { template("<${PRI}>1 ${ISODATE} ${HOST} ${PROGRAM} ${PID} - $MSG"); template_escape(no) };
destination d_ekanite {
	tcp("127.0.0.1" port(5514) template(Ekanite));
};

log {
	source(s_ekanite);
	destination(d_ekanite);
};
```
Add this template to `/etc/syslog-ng/syslog-ng.conf` and then restart syslog-ng using the command `/etc/init.d/syslog-ng restart`.

With these changes in place rsyslog or syslog-ng will continue to send logs to any existing destination, and also forward the logs to Ekanite.

Searching the logs
------------
Search support is pretty simple at the moment. You have two options -- a simple telnet-like interface, and a browser-based interface.

### Telnet interface

Telnet to the query server (see the command line options) and enter a search term. The query language supported is the simple language supported by [bleve](http://godoc.org/github.com/blevesearch/bleve#NewQueryStringQuery), but a more sophisiticated query syntax, including searching for specific field values, may be supported soon.

For example, below is an example search session, showing accesses to the login URL of a Wordpress site. The telnet clients connects to the query server and enters the string `login`

```
$ telnet 127.0.0.1 9950
Trying 127.0.0.1...
Connected to 127.0.0.1.
Escape character is '^]'.
login
<134>0 2015-05-05T23:50:17.025568+00:00 fisher apache-access - - 65.98.59.154 - - [05/May/2015:23:50:12 +0000] "GET /wp-login.php HTTP/1.0" 200 206 "-" "-"
<134>0 2015-05-06T01:24:41.232890+00:00 fisher apache-access - - 104.140.83.221 - - [06/May/2015:01:24:40 +0000] "GET /wp-login.php?action=register HTTP/1.0" 200 206 "http://www.philipotoole.com/" "Opera/9.80 (Windows NT 6.2; Win64; x64) Presto/2.12.388 Version/12.17"
<134>0 2015-05-06T01:24:41.232895+00:00 fisher apache-access - - 104.140.83.221 - - [06/May/2015:01:24:40 +0000] "GET /wp-login.php?action=register HTTP/1.1" 200 243 "http://www.philipotoole.com/wp-login.php?action=register" "Opera/9.80 (Windows NT 6.2; Win64; x64) Presto/2.12.388 Version/12.17"
<134>0 2015-05-06T02:47:54.612953+00:00 fisher apache-access - - 184.68.20.22 - - [06/May/2015:02:47:51 +0000] "GET /wp-login.php HTTP/1.1" 200 243 "-" "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1) AppleWebKit/537.1 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/24.0.1309.0 Safari/537.17"
<134>0 2015-05-06T04:20:49.008609+00:00 fisher apache-access - - 193.104.41.186 - - [06/May/2015:04:20:46 +0000] "POST /wp-login.php HTTP/1.1" 200 206 "-" "Opera 10.00"
```

Perhaps you only want to search for `POST` accesses to that URL:

```
login -GET
<134>0 2015-05-06T04:20:49.008609+00:00 fisher apache-access - - 193.104.41.186 - - [06/May/2015:04:20:46 +0000] "POST /wp-login.php HTTP/1.1" 200 206 "-" "Opera 10.00"
```

A more sophisticated client program is planned.

### Browser interface

The browser-based interface also accepts bleve-style queries, identical to those described in the _Telnet_ section. By default the browser interface is available at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080). An example session is shown below.

![Data Diagram](img/eq.png)

## Diagnostics
Basic statistics and diagnostics are available. Visit `http://localhost:9951/debug/vars` to retrieve this information. The host and port can be changed via the `-diag` command-line option.

## Reporting
Ekanite reports a small amount anonymous data to [Loggly](http://www.loggly.com), each time it is launched. This data is just the host operating system and system architecture and is only used to track the number of Ekanite deployments. Reporting can be disabled by passing `-noreport=true` to Ekanite at launch time.

## Project Status
The project is actively developed and is early stage software -- contributions in the form of bug reports and pull requests are welcome. Much work remains around performance and scaling, and you can check out [the issues](https://github.com/ekanite/ekanite/issues) for more details.
